# BIOMD0000000451: MODEL1304230001

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000451.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000451.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Carbo2013 - Cytokine driven CD4+ T Cell differentiation and phenotype
plasticity

CD4+ T cells can differentiate into different phenotypes depending on the
cytokine milieu. Here a computational and mathematical model with sixty
ordinary differential equations representing a CD4+ T cell differentiating
into either Th1, Th2, Th17 or iTreg cells, has been constructed. The model
includes cytokines, nuclear receptors and transcription factors that define
fate and function of CD4+ T cells. Computational simulations illustrate how a
proinflammatory Th17 cell can undergo reprogramming into an anti-inflammatory
iTreg phenotype following PPARc activation.

This model is described in the article:

[Systems Modeling of Molecular Mechanisms Controlling Cytokine-driven CD4+ T
Cell Differentiation and Phenotype
Plasticity.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/23592971)

Carbo A, Hontecillas R, Kronsteiner B, Viladomiu M, Pedragosa M, Lu P,
Philipson CW, Hoops S, Marathe M, Eubank S, Bisset K, Wendelsdorf K, Jarrah A,
Mei Y, Bassaganya-Riera J

PLoS Computational Biology [2013, 9(4):e1003027]

Abstract:

Differentiation of CD4+ T cells into effector or regulatory phenotypes is
tightly controlled by the cytokine milieu, complex intracellular signaling
networks and numerous transcriptional regulators. We combined experimental
approaches and computational modeling to investigate the mechanisms
controlling differentiation and plasticity of CD4+ T cells in the gut of mice.
Our computational model encompasses the major intracellular pathways involved
in CD4+ T cell differentiation into T helper 1 (Th1), Th2, Th17 and induced
regulatory T cells (iTreg). Our modeling efforts predicted a critical role for
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) in modulating
plasticity between Th17 and iTreg cells. PPARγ regulates differentiation,
activation and cytokine production, thereby controlling the induction of
effector and regulatory responses, and is a promising therapeutic target for
dysregulated immune responses and inflammation. Our modeling efforts predict
that following PPARγ activation, Th17 cells undergo phenotype switch and
become iTreg cells. This prediction was validated by results of adoptive
transfer studies showing an increase of colonic iTreg and a decrease of Th17
cells in the gut mucosa of mice with colitis following pharmacological
activation of PPARγ. Deletion of PPARγ in CD4+ T cells impaired mucosal iTreg
and enhanced colitogenic Th17 responses in mice with CD4+ T cell-induced
colitis. Thus, for the first time we provide novel molecular evidence in vivo
demonstrating that PPARγ in addition to regulating CD4+ T cell differentiation
also plays a major role controlling Th17 and iTreg plasticity in the gut
mucosa.

**Author's comment:** CD4+ T cell computational model (Version 1.4) Steady state corrected. There was a problem in the internalization of IL-17 in its mathematical function. 

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1304230001](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1304230001) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


